a sinister submarine eel with rows of
teeth
and a bulldog bite versus being dangled
underneath a helicopter into a
crocodile's list
i am not even joking which of these
moments from deadly 16 do you think
think's gonna win our deadly showdown
my name's steve bachel and this is my
deadly showdowns
where i take moments from deadly and
compare them and put them head to head
in one big well showdown who's kind of
in the title isn't it
and this time round it's all about the
animal that has the biggest bite
so who's up first well this is the moray
eel
as a diver there are several animals
that you have to be concerned about and
it's never the things you'd expect
you're never worried about getting eaten
by sharks
you are worried sometimes about certain
kinds of jellyfish
and moire eels because they may
initially seem to be
friendly but they will on occasion bite
and they have a ferocious
nip over the years on deadly we tried to
come up with lots of different ways of
quantifying the animals that we find and
are trying to put them in order in terms
of their capabilities
and one of the most important things i
came up with to do that
was called the bite test we have tried
it with
so many different creatures a whole
range of different crocodilians
alligators komodo dragons spotted hyenas
and most of the time it's ended pretty
badly
the one that we made for more eels was
about that long and it kind of looked
like a lipstick
but it worked the same way what happens
is
the animal bites down on this section
here and then
on this gauge will register quite how
powerful their bike force is
so let me just try my own bike and see
what it registers
my bike force registers a mere 40 pounds
per square inch
we need to get amore to give it a nibble
what could possibly go wrong this was
in the seas of hawaii and there are many
different species of moire eels on one
single dive i think we encountered
six different kinds of more eels each of
them set apart
by their their coloration by the
marbling the speckle the spots the
stripes
every single one of them utterly
beautiful look at this
[Music]
now i've got two separate species of
eels
so we've got a white mouthfeel this one
here very very beautiful covered in
blotches
and we actually have a third species
this one's a tiger maureen and a fourth
one as well simon look
in one magical moment i found myself
down in amongst the corals talking about
the morays
and one came out from the coral head
right in front of my mask as i was
talking
certainly seems quite friendly but i'm
quite glad that i've got the mask
protecting my face i really wouldn't
want it nibbling on my nose
there are a few close calls as well i
had one that swam
right up in between my legs somewhere
that
most people would never ever want to
have a more eel particularly when you
see what their teeth are like
so on the upper jaw they have different
rows of teeth one on the outside another
one on the inside
they are really spiky and needle like
pointing back towards the throat
and the head is quite bulbous around
here that's a sign of the muscles that
are driving the jaw
shut but what we needed was to get a
really good bite
on our bike test gauge to be able to
figure out how powerful that bike was
eventually i found a really good sized
eel
i mean its head looked like it was
bigger than mine
as i lowered the gauge towards it it
grabbed a hold and started shaking
and it felt like it was going to wrench
my arms out of their sockets
[Music]
wow it's really really strong
i could tell that it was generating a
huge amount of force and i
could not wait to see the gauge and see
what number it represented because it
was going to be big
and i looked at it and it wasn't big
in fact it was practically nothing and
then i realized why
no wonder it's not registering anything
it's punctured
the teeth are so sharp and thin
they've gone right through it so i don't
know in numbers how powerful that bite
was
but i'm telling you you would not want
to get bitten
so who is contender number two well this
is one of those moments
when if i tell it to someone they think
i'm joking
and kind of with good reason this was
in the northern territories of australia
we were going out working with local
scientists
looking at saltwater crocodile nests
salties are the biggest and the heaviest
of all reptiles
the biggest ones can be over six meters
in length and they can weigh
more than a ton it's one of the very few
animals
on the planet that will deliberately
target hunt and eat a human being so
you have to be incredibly careful
and i'm not sure that i would qualify
this as careful
because the way that we got into their
nests was by
hooking ourselves onto a rope
on the underneath of a helicopter
flying in on the sling heading into the
nest
this is absolute madness
but it got crazier because finally we
got
into this really thick long razor grass
and you could see the nests of the
crocodiles below and the female
crocodiles lying over the top of the
nests protecting them
and that was where we needed to get we
actually stood
on the nest of a saltwater crocodile as
she right in front of us
reared up opened her mouth and showed
off those
those great cone-shaped teeth and jaws
and
it just felt like madness
[Music]
we did though take it one stage further
because we needed to find out which
animal had the biggest bite
and to do that we had to bite test a big
saltwater crocodile inside here
hidden underneath all of those aquatic
plants is a
4.7 meter long crocodile and we've got a
perfect opportunity to actually
test out its bite
we took in this bike test gauge i put it
in the water in front of him
and he just went onto the gauge and then
swung it around two or three times pick
me up in the air slam me against a tree
like i was a rag doll
i just got absolutely smashed
good lord the power of the animal is
phenomenal
unfortunately now we've lost the bike
gauge
the camera and the stick
holy moly i don't know how much force he
generated
because he totally took my gauge it sank
to the bottom of the pool and i for one
was not going in there to find it
[Music]
so who's going to win well it is the
biggest biting animal on the planet
so it has to be the salty and in fact
they have a bite force that
probably compared with that of some of
the biggest of the dinosaurs
what do you guys think i mean that one
has to be the salty
surely there's lots more deadly
showdowns available so head to bbc
earthkids and hit
subscribe and also oodles more deadly
content
so lots lots more of me you can't get
away from me all the very best from me
stevie b